The President: Hi everybody.
Our country is home to
some of the most beautiful
God-given landscapes
in the world.
We're blessed with natural
treasures from the Grand Tetons
to the Grand Canyon,
from lush forests and vast
deserts to lakes and rivers
teeming with wildlife.
And it's our responsibility
to protect these treasures
for future generations just
as previous generations
protected them for us.
Since taking office I've set
aside more than 260 million
acres of public lands and
waters -- more than any
President in history.
Last month, we announced
that 11 states had come
together with ranchers and
industry groups to protect a
threatened species,
the sage grouse,
without jeopardizing
local economies.
Two weeks ago we announced
that we're creating one new
marine sanctuary on the
Potomac River in Maryland
and another along Lake
Michigan in Wisconsin part
of unprecedented efforts to
restore the Chesapeake Bay
and the Great Lakes.
We also joined a coalition
of countries cracking down
on illegal fishing that
threatened jobs and food
security around the globe.
And I'm going to keep
protecting the places that
make America special and
the livelihoods of those who
depend on them.
We'll also keep doing what
we can to prevent the worst
effects of climate change
before it's too late.
Over the past six years
we've led by example
generating more clean energy
and lowering
our carbon emissions.
Our businesses have stepped
up in a big way including
just this past week some of
our biggest companies made
new commitments to act on
climate not just because
it's good for the planet but
because it's good for
their bottom line.
This is how America's
leading on the environment
and because America's
leading by example,
150 countries, representing
over 85 percent of global
emissions have now laid our
plans to reduce their levels
of the harmful carbon
pollution that warms our planet.
It gives us great momentum
going into Paris this
December where the world
needs to come together and
build on these individual
commitments with an
ambitious, long-term
agreement to protect this
Earth for our kids.
Now Congress has
to do its job.
This month, even as
Republicans in Congress
barely manage to keep
our government open,
they shut down something
called the
Land and Water Conservation Fund.
For more than half a century
this fund has protected more
than five million acres of
land from playgrounds to
parks to priceless
landscapes all without
costing taxpayers a dime.
Nearly every single county
in America has benefitted
from this program.
It has bipartisan support
in both
the House and the Senate.
Republicans in Congress
should reauthorize and fully
fund the Land and Water
Conservation Fund without delay.
After all, as Pope Francis
reminds us so eloquently,
"This planet is a gift from
God and our common home.
We should leave it to our
kids in better shape than we
found it."
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.